---
id: reference_generalmodelsettings_viewsettings_viewsettings
name: "View Settings"
kind: manual
breadcrumb: ["Reference","GeneralModelSettings","ViewSettings","ViewSettings"]
tags: ["manual","reference","generalmodelsettings","viewsettings"]
source: "manual/Reference/GeneralModelSettings/ViewSettings/ViewSettings.html"
---

# View Settings

## Properties Panels

 

The 3D view uses the following properties panels:

 

- Views
- View Settings
- View Style
- Capture View
- Follow Object

 

 

 

## Light Source Editor

 

This dialog can be accessed by opening the View Style panel and clicking the Edit button in the Light Sources group.

  

#### Default Lighting Limitations

 

FlexSim's default shaders are limited to eight lights. Additional lights will be ignored.

 

FlexSim's default shadow mapping currently only works with the first light source and only as a directional light.

  

This tool has the following properties:

 

 

### X Position

 

This number is the position along the X axis of the model where this light source is located.

 

### Y Position

 

This number is the position along the Y axis of the model where this light source is located.

 

### Z Position

 

This number is the position along the Z axis of the model where this light source is located.

 

### Color

 

This allows the user to choose the color of the light from this light source.

 

### As point source

 

If this box is checked, the light generated by this light source appears to be coming from a specific point, relative to the camera. If it is not checked, the light appears to be coming from a given direction only.

 

### Headlight

 

If this box is checked, the light light source will move with the camera acting as a headlight.

 

### Edit in 3D View

 

If this box is checked, a lightbulb object will be displayed in the 3D view and allow you to move the light source to a desired position.
